README.md, before:

# Zip File Reader for Cloudflare Workers

This project demonstrates how to read and extract Zip files on Cloudflare Workers using the Web Streams API and built-in decompression capabilities.

## Generated with AI

All code in this project (and this README) was generated by [Claude](https://claude.ai) but prompted and overseen by [Jeremy Morrell](https://github.com/jmorrell).

## Overview

This example Worker accepts Zip files via HTTP POST requests and extracts their contents server-side. It showcases:

- **Native Zip parsing** - Custom implementation that reads the Zip format specification
- **Streaming extraction** - Uses `ReadableStream` and `DecompressionStream` for efficient file extraction
- **Deflate support** - Handles both stored (uncompressed) and deflate-compressed files
- **Cloudflare Workers compatibility** - Built specifically for the Workers runtime environment

## Code Structure

- [`src/index.ts`](src/index.ts) - Main Worker handler that processes uploads
- [`src/zip.ts`](src/zip.ts) - `ZipReader` class implementing Zip format parsing

## Features

The `ZipReader` class provides:

- Parsing of Zip central directory and file headers
- File metadata extraction (filename, size, compression method, last modified date, CRC32)
- Streaming file extraction with automatic decompression
- Support for both stored (method 0) and deflate (method 8) compression

## Usage

### Deploy to Cloudflare Workers

```bash
npm install
npm run deploy
```

### Local Development

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Send a Zip File

```bash
curl -X POST -F "file=@archive.zip" https://your-worker.workers.dev
```

The Worker will extract and log the contents of each file in the Zip archive.

## How It Works

1. **Upload**: The Worker receives a Zip file via multipart form data POST request
2. **Parse**: The `ZipReader` class parses the Zip file structure:
   - Locates the End of Central Directory (EOCD) record
   - Reads the central directory to find all file entries
   - Extracts metadata for each file
3. **Extract**: Individual files can be extracted as `ReadableStream` instances
4. **Decompress**: Deflate-compressed files are automatically decompressed using the Web Streams `DecompressionStream` API

## License

This is an example project for educational purposes.

Commit message:

Add a note on the limitations of decoding a zip file in-memory

README.md, after:

# Zip File Reader for Cloudflare Workers

This project demonstrates how to read and extract Zip files on Cloudflare Workers using the Web Streams API and built-in decompression capabilities.

## Generated with AI

All code in this project (and this README) was generated by [Claude](https://claude.ai) but prompted and overseen by [Jeremy Morrell](https://github.com/jmorrell).

## Overview

This example Worker accepts Zip files via HTTP POST requests and extracts their contents server-side. It showcases:

- **Native Zip parsing** - Custom implementation that reads the Zip format specification
- **Streaming extraction** - Uses `ReadableStream` and `DecompressionStream` for efficient file extraction
- **Deflate support** - Handles both stored (uncompressed) and deflate-compressed files
- **Cloudflare Workers compatibility** - Built specifically for the Workers runtime environment

## Limitations

This simple implementation reads the whole zip file into memory. Given that workers are limited to 128MB of memory
it will fail on anything approaching that size.

You could refactor it to use HTTP Ranged reads to read a larger zip archive off of R2, but this is out of scope
for me for now, so this is left as an exercise to the reader.

## Code Structure

- [`src/index.ts`](src/index.ts) - Main Worker handler that processes uploads
- [`src/zip.ts`](src/zip.ts) - `ZipReader` class implementing Zip format parsing

## Features

The `ZipReader` class provides:

- Parsing of Zip central directory and file headers
- File metadata extraction (filename, size, compression method, last modified date, CRC32)
- Streaming file extraction with automatic decompression
- Support for both stored (method 0) and deflate (method 8) compression

## Usage

### Deploy to Cloudflare Workers

```bash
npm install
npm run deploy
```

### Local Development

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Send a Zip File

```bash
curl -X POST -F "file=@archive.zip" https://your-worker.workers.dev
```

The Worker will extract and log the contents of each file in the Zip archive.

## How It Works

1. **Upload**: The Worker receives a Zip file via multipart form data POST request
2. **Parse**: The `ZipReader` class parses the Zip file structure:
   - Locates the End of Central Directory (EOCD) record
   - Reads the central directory to find all file entries
   - Extracts metadata for each file
3. **Extract**: Individual files can be extracted as `ReadableStream` instances
4. **Decompress**: Deflate-compressed files are automatically decompressed using the Web Streams `DecompressionStream` API

## License

This is an example project for educational purposes.
